I'm filming this video now on a bright
sunny day and the mountains of central
Taiwan to look around behind me this is
a country with basically zero poverty
zero really you can you can look at the
statistics it's remarkable how
successful someone is as an industrial
country
it's remarkable or successful it is
economically educationally in terms of
government services health care blah
blah blah but you know what on this
street in particular is a whole lot of
rusting corrugated iron that will make
you think you were living in a
third-world country and it's in this
sense not out of the usual white Western
fixation with political correctness
wanted to make a quick video saying hey
can we just stop can we stop using the
terms third-world and developing country
the helping nations developing economies
all that stuff could we just drop it
could we just let that mean die here are
people drying their laundry on rusting
you know rusting cyclone fences as we
call that nation a cyclone fence real
real third world in its aesthetics this
particular this particular ally of the
two terms developing country and the
the more offensive really is developing
developing nation developing gonzo what
do you think finders rust and corrugated
iron
people-people attempting to grow
vegetables
I can't even say in their front yard in
front of this garage abandoned garage
all right I say again Taiwan it's not
the Taiwan is the wealthiest country in
the world
Taiwan has remarkably close to zero
poverty there is less poverty in Taiwan
than there is in Japan less poverty in
Taiwan than almost any country in Europe
that I've done a comparative analysis
with well okay not if you get into some
of the freakishly wealthy countries in
Europe like Luxembourg but you know
really I've looked at the statistics the
achievement of Taiwan economically is
remarkable but nevertheless um a lot of
people misunderstand the origin and
meaning of third-world as a concept it
does not refer to the contrast between
the Soviet Union in the United States it
communism and capitalism the origin of
the term third-world relates the idea
that Europe was the first world and then
the settlement of North America and
second of South America that that was
the second world so that the first world
was what people used to call the old
world and then the second world
was what formerly was known as the new
world in colonial terms the settlement
of the new world the colonization of the
new world this is now out of fashion and
then the idea was that the third world
was the whole remainder of planet Earth
where the seeing technologies the same
mode of production much taken for
granted in Europe the United States and
Canada that that would now now meaning
after World War two basically but that
would now spread increasingly throughout
the so-called third world so you know
where does Saudi Arabia fit into that
concept you know Saudi Arabia's not the
only example but I mean you know
obviously this is applied in a certain
way in a certain sense you know to a
kind of stereotypical poverty-stricken
Africa you know a continent of Africa
imagined to be passively waiting for you
know salvation to arrive in the form of
European and American development
assistance charity of one kind or
another it's another plot of vegetables
being grown here behind me you heard it
was just next to a busy street with some
industry on it those palm trees there
those are not decorative those also
produce a cash crop of sorts this
actually looks a bit abandoned to this
vegetable fly maybe maybe somebody was
farming this for vegetables a few years
ago and then at some point they lost
interest or keep up the effort but those
palm trees above actually produce a
legal addictive drug not illegal but
legal that's sold here and those are
banana trees those palms down there now
I've lived in Cambodia I've lived in
Laos I have lived in so-called third
world developing poverty-stricken
countries they look a lot like this they
look a lot like where I'm standing right
now in every way the palm trees the
banana trees the small plot gardening
the rust
but here we are amidst the the wealth
and splendor of a very affluent city in
Taiwan this city I believe there is one
homeless person here and with no offense
to him I think he chooses to be homeless
I think it's a lifestyle choice I don't
think it's that he has no better
alternatives haven't talked to the guy
in depth but that's the impression I get
yeah I think we have exactly one
homeless person in this city and again
almost zero measurable poverty ah the
problem with the concept of developing
country the reason why it's even worse
than this notion of first world second
or third world is precisely that it
presumes it imagines it argues that
there is one destination that the rest
of the world is tending towards that
there is one endpoint or goal that there
is one purpose economic development
democracy cultural development cetera
exists for and nothing could be further
from the truth this presumption also
feeds into a very strange way of looking
at of understanding what's happening
here and now in poverty-stricken
countries places like Laos Cambodia you
know there are neighborhoods in Laos
where I'm sorry I fed there's enough 10
years ago 15 years ago many years ago
when I was living there in Laos people
just presumed Oh all this will be
bulldozed in no time look we're building
this part of the city now but in just a
few years there's gonna be development
it's gonna be you know so-called
developing country there's gonna be
economic development that then brushes
all this aside all this is going to
disappear it's all gonna be replaced by
something better I think some of those
people imagined that the future of the
capital city of Laos would look like
Hong Kong and maybe some of them
imagined that the future of Laos would
look like Shanghai in China and when
none of them imagined is what they've
got today which is that after a very
very brief period of so-called
development the country stagnated and
you can look at Google Maps today I can
look at images on the internet today and
see there's been absolutely no progress
at all since I left the country in that
way that in the contra which you bet is
regress what you've got is a lot of rust
you know that there was this sense that
the future was bright that anything was
possible that Laos was gonna quote
unquote catch up with developed
countries and that's built into this
notion of a developing country right
like first world second world third
world as if there's some inevitable
progress like the falling of dominoes
that leads from one to the next and the
truth is the capital city of Laos is
never going to resemble Hong Kong
it's never gonna resemble Shanghai it's
never gonna resemble New York or London
or anything in Europe and in the
contrary that that country bankrupted
itself imitating a model of economic
development that was never suited to it
so what what would I propose if we were
actually to take this serious if we're
going to stop speaking in terms of the
third world in terms of the developing
world who we're going to get rid of
those terms if we're gonna start using
you know language that doesn't have this
built-in sense of teleology this
built-in sense of a foregone conclusion
or destination that economic development
of these countries is ten towards my
answer is we should use the words rich
and poor we should simply talk about
poor countries poverty-stricken
countries and we should talk about rich
countries the idea that development has
a destination is a delusion the idea
that the first world that and the second
world represents an end point that the
third world is progressing awards is
propaganda that's not just to be
discarded now it ceased to be clearance
it cease to be meaningful Danny the
people it's been preached to